Up to this moment we learned how to create roots inside the web BHP file first using the closures and
then using controller classes.
And we have also learned how to pass parameters and to render views.
Now it's time to start working with real thing.
And I mean working with the databases.
So first we should create a brand new database.
And if you are using sump which I prepared a video on how to set up you can go to this page the local
host BHP my admin by the way I'd like you to remind you that I've created this of a cheat sheet.
It's available in GitHub and the link is always available with where I put some basic configuration
options how to use them.
Some other basic information you can think of it as a frequently asked questions.
There's also some animated gifs on how to do certain things.
Now let's go to the BHP.
My admin or any other software that you might be using and create a brand new database so you can just
press this new button on the left and specify our database name.
So let's go with Lara for now.
And the second thing is we have to specify their characters set so scroll down to the bottom and you
should see UTF M before Unicode S.I..
So create a database using this character set.
Just press create.
It's enough for now we do not we want to create an ad tables inside P2P my admin No let's go back to
the code editor and see where we can configure all that.
So there is a folder called config inside our larval project and it has our database peach bee file
which is used to configure how you work with databases.
So the first setting you might see here is the default which means the default connection.
You should use so that probably would be enough for most of your needs.
If you are just using one database and the value of the settings is the result of the mysterious end
function which accepts two parameters.
The first is the environment variable name and the second is the default value if this environment variable
cannot be found.
No don't worry about the environment variables in this very second we'll get to them in just a couple
of minutes.
Now let's focus on the second parameter of this connection and it's my sequel the string my sequel so
it doesn't magically tell Laura well that we should use the my sequel database.
It is actually the name of a connection we have defined below.
So this comes as standard by default from Lara.
So we have this configurations and those are the connections defined for our application.
So we have to ask you a light my sequel that pose a risk ask you well and ask you a server but the only
one that will interest us at this very moment is then my sequel.
So you can see that all of those connections have a driver specified.
So this is actually what's defining which variable type we will use.
You can see my sequel here and also the connection parameters like the host part the database name username
password are all loaded using the end function which will fetch the value of an environment variable.
Also notice the collation parameter and it is the same that we have specified when we created our database.
Impeach B my army so unless you have a very good reason to use something else and you really know what
you are doing then this should be your default.
Now let's go back to the concept of environment variables that I've already talked about.
So you can see that we have multiple calls to this and the function which accepts two arguments and
the first one is the environment variable to use.
And the second one would be the default value if this environment variable couldn't be found.
So what are those environment variables.
So bucking the days you would typically create up each bee file when you will put an array for example
where all your configuration for your application would be stored or you might have used any files or
Yamana files.
So now we do not do things anymore these days.
Now we use environment variables.
So what's the benefit of using environment variables.
So some history again back in the days we probably created one file let's say conflict peach B where
we created a variable with which was an array and we've put all that configuration for our up like passwords
and hosts of the database into this one file then you will probably upload some files through FTB to
your server and probably it would have another copy of that file with the production settings.
So the environment variables lets us create applications that are environment independent.
And what I mean by that is that you can create one code that can run the same on every possible environment
so you can have the same application on your local development environment on your testing environments
and on production environments.
And the only thing that change is their configuration which is being stored inside their environment
variables.
So where can we find them now.
Let's open the DOT and file that as part of our project and we can see a list of the variables that
are defined for our up.
So what interests us is this DB connection up to DB password.
So these end files.
This is our development tool to not force developers to create environments like 51 machines Dockers
or configure it in a complicated way it's just for you to be able to easily find all your configuration
and it is being loaded only if this file exists by some development tools.
So this is where we will configure our environment variables when we are developing our project.
Now on your real server you would store this typically inside the virtual house definition.
So let's go to our sample folder.
The EDC extra and find our HDD PD v hosts file which we created and open it inside the visual studio
called so on your server on your Apache server.
At least you would do something like this.
You would add a set and directive and define it like TB connection environment variable and its value.
You can also store that inside a special file called Dot h the access if your server allows that and
it allows that if it has this directive that allow overwrite all.
So I've talked about that when we on the lecture about setting up the sump so you might remember this
but we won't do it right now.
Working with that end files is good enough at least when we are learning larval but just so you know
that this is the way you would keep your environment variables.
And then on different servers you will already have everything configured and you won't put any of your
parameter secrets or passwords directly into your code.
For example if you would like to store your code on services like GitHub or any other code repositories.